### Differences between Node.js and the Browser

Both the browser and Node.js use JavaScript as their programming language. Building apps that run in the browser is completely different from building a Node.js application. Despite the fact that it's always JavaScript, there are some key differences that make the experience radically different.

#### What changes in the ecosystem

- **DOM and Web Platform APIs**: In the browser, you interact with the DOM and Web Platform APIs like Cookies, which do not exist in Node.js. Node.js lacks objects like `document` and `window`.
- **Node.js APIs**: Node.js provides APIs through its modules, such as filesystem access, which are not available in the browser.
- **Controlled Environment**: In Node.js, you control the environment and know which version of Node.js your application will run on. This is unlike the browser environment, where you cannot choose the browser version your visitors use.
- **Modern JavaScript**: You can write modern ES2015+ JavaScript supported by your Node.js version. In the browser, you might need to use older JavaScript versions due to slower browser upgrades. Babel can be used to transform code to ES5-compatible for the browser, but this is unnecessary in Node.js.
- **Module Systems**: Node.js supports both CommonJS and ES module systems (since Node.js v12). In the browser, only the ES Modules standard is being implemented. This allows using both `require()` and `import` in Node.js, while the browser is limited to `import`.
##### Reference

[Differences between Node.js and the Browser](https://nodejs.org/en/learn/getting-started/differences-between-nodejs-and-the-browser)